The Project Gutenberg eBook of False face
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: False face

Author: Ernest Haycox

Release date: September 26, 2025 [eBook #76931]

Language: English

Original publication: New York, NY: Street & Smith Corporation, 1926

Credits: Roger Frank and Sue Clark


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FALSE FACE ***


                             False Face

                           By Ernest Haycox
               Author of “A Good Man to Lie For,” etc.


“Now listen, you gol-durned, slab-footed curmudgeon,” exclaimed Sheriff
Bart McKenzie, “you’re goin’ to take the deppity star I give you! Don’t
want to hear no more objections. It’s my duty an’ privilege to draft
an’ swear in whomsoever I choose. You ain’t got no right to stand there
an’ tell me you feel disinclined to serve yore country; it’s a
downright perversion of public sperrit, and I’m not a-goin’ to stand
fer it.”

“Don’t want nuthin’ to do with it,” repeated old Dave Budd with a still
greater vehemence. “Ain’t goin’ to go around with that hunk o’ tin on
my shirt lookin’ like a dumb fool.”

“Fool?” roared Bart McKenzie. “I take it I look like a fool fer
carryin’ my star, then?’

“You’re a duly ’lected sheriff,” explained Budd. “People wanted you to
serve, or they wouldn’t have voted you in. As fer me, I’m a fat, old
man, and my fightin’ days are plumb past. Git yoreself some young and
spry feller that likes to ride saddle all night long, or live on a
slice o’ bacon four days runnin’. Me, I got to have more comfort in my
old age, Bart.”

The sheriff neatly strung together a series of strong words. “Why, you
idiot, you’re no older’n me! Call forty-eight old? Howsomever, I ain’t
askin’ you to track no criminals across the desert. You don’t have to.
Yore word is pretty much law in these parts, anyhow.”

“Well, that bein’ so,” replied Budd, “why should I have to wear a
gol-durned piece o’ soldered tin on my shirt? Now you listen to me,
old-timer. I got my own way o’ dispensin’ sech justice as these parts
need. It don’t have anything to do with totin’ a badge around, either.
Why, that’d set all my folks agin’ me, Bart. No, sir, you let me be.
We’re real peaceful at this end o’ the country and don’t need no
deppities. When suthin’ outrageous happens, you git here soon enough,
anyhow.”

McKenzie opened the clasp of the deputy’s badge and got hold of Budd’s
dusty vest. “Ain’t listenin’ to no more palaver,” he said, snorting.
“I’m a-goin’ to brand you right now, critter. There, Deppity Budd,
you’re a handsome-lookin’ peace officer.”

The storekeeper’s huge face was wreathed in a scowl as he stared at the
trinket of authority on his vest. “It’s all turrible foolish,” said he.
“What’m I to look after? Jack rabbits and coyotes?”

“You old maverick,” said the sheriff in placating tones, “I been
lettin’ you alone fer a good while, but now’s time fer some serious
work. Jest take a look out in yore front pasture, and I reckon you’ll
know what I’m deppitizin’ you for.”

Budd had no need to glance through his front door. The invasion had
descended upon him a week ago in the form of broken down farm wagons,
old-time schooners, buggies, pack mules and solitary riders on every
shade and size of horse. Mostly it was a family affair; the clearing in
front of the store was dotted with tents and lean-tos and stray baggage
and fires. Men clustered in groups, speaking guardedly or else in
heated discussion, while the women bustled about the flames and
prepared the night meal. Even as the storekeeper scanned the group he
heard the creaking of fresh wagons through the trees.

They came from every corner of the State and from adjoining States;
rough people and refined, all eager to share in a new prospect of
comfort and prosperity. The cause of this boom was a mere rumor, a
thin, unsubstantiated report that the government, long idle in this
part of central Oregon, was about to dam a distant river in the hills
and construct great main canals to irrigate the land. Budd shook his
head solemnly. It was, he repeated to himself, only a rumor--and rumors
had ugly ways of dying out, never again to be heard. Nevertheless these
hopeful people came, camped in his clearing, while preliminary scouts
were sent out to find land that had not been homesteaded, and then
vanished through the jack pines, bound for their new El Dorado,
somewhere beyond in the open country.

“Reminds me of the old days in Oklahoma,” said Budd. “Dang me ef there
wasn’t a rush fer the Indian lands. I can still hear the bugles sound
for the sign we could cross in. By golly! Reckon I was younger then.”

“Ne’m mind that sad extemporizin’,” interrupted the sheriff. “Jest
foller my ideas a spell. You see that red-headed young man with the
scowl on his face? I want you should keep an eye on him, Budd. Folks
have been complainin’ about losin’ money and valuables from their
wagons and sleepin’ places durin’ the night. Well, now, he’s a
reckless-lookin’ son of a gun, and he’s been hangin’ round these
diggin’s fer a week, hain’t he?”

Budd chuckled. “Huh, it’s a girl that keep him glued here, not money.”

“Powerful suspicious lookin’ to me, Dave. You keep an eye on him. I
been sizin’ the whole crowd up, and he’s the only one I’d figger to
watch.”

“All right, all right,” agreed the storekeeper, turning morose again.
“Got to be a cussed bloodhound, have I?”

The red-headed young man evidently had something on his mind; he fished
through his pockets and fumbled among the few effects piled on the
ground by his saddle; rising empty-handed, he turned toward the store.
The sheriff clapped on his sombrero and started out.

“I’ll vamose, Dave, and let you alone until next week.”

He climbed into the saddle as the young man swung to the porch. The
sheriff’s horse, catching sight of a skittering sheet of white paper,
reared and snorted, plunged against a porch column, knocked a board off
with his feet, and drummed out of the clearing.

“Huh!” exclaimed the young man. “What’s he aimin’ to do, make a fence
jumper out of that cayuse?”

“Horse is jest a mite skittish,” said Budd mildly. He opened a fresh
box of tomatoes and began packing the cans to the shelf. Halfway, he
stopped to observe. “Horses are plumb like women that a way. Purty, but
skittish.”

“Yeah,” said the young man, suddenly looking harassed. “Ain’t it the
solemn an’ miserable truth?”

He took off his Stetson and scratched his flaming thatch. By no means
could he be called handsome, with his pugnacious chin and nose, his
slate-gray eyes and his gaunt, weather-worn frame. It seemed as if he
might have been recently subjected to an illness, for he seemed a
little nervous and finely drawn. “Yeah,” he muttered. “I’ll tell a man
it’s so. First you’re it and then you ain’t.” His eyes were fixed on a
couple that moved in and out of the trees.

Budd chuckled at the tomato cans and blandly asked, “What’d you say,
Bill?”

“First you’re it, and then next thing the earth ain’t big enough to
hold you.” He wrinkled his nose in surprise. “How’d you know my first
monnicker?”

“Heard a gal call you by it,” said Budd.

“Huh! You won’t hear her callin’ me that no more. Oh, no, she don’t
know I’m a human bein’ these days.” He was talking as if half to
himself, still keeping his slate-gray eyes fixed on the couple. They
had advanced from the main road and were twining around the wagons and
fires--a sturdy girl and a tall man in chaps. “Huh,” he muttered. Then
again: “Huh. Gimme a sack of tobacco, Budd. What road do I take out o’
this country? South, I mean.”

“Leavin’?” queried Budd. “Well, jest keep to the main way and you’ll
strike Klamath by’n by.”

“Uhuh,” said Bill. He rolled a cigarette, licked it and reached for a
match. “Thanks.”

He leaned against the counter and drew a mouthful of smoke. Budd saw
his face turn perfectly bland and cheerful. There was a gay burst of
laughter and a man’s short speech. The couple came in the door. The
girl, foremost, stopped short at sight of Bill, looked at him and
through him; her smile disappeared and a color came to her cheeks. Bill
drew a deep draft of smoke and spoke to Budd as if continuing the
conversation.

“Yeah, first thing in the mornin’, I guess. This country don’t strike
me so much. Guess you’d better lay aside a can o’ them tomatoes and
some bacon. I’ll be back for the duffle later.”

“Don’t let me interfere with your business,” said the girl haughtily.
“Sam and I are only visiting.”

“Oh, no,” said Bill in sprightly tones, “there ain’t room enough for
all of us in such a small place.” He walked by her and approached Sam.
He had to look up a little to meet Sam’s eyes. The man was tall; his
accouterments were neat and his clothes well kept. He had a face that,
to the genial and shrewd Budd, seemed as uncommunicative as any a man
could boast. It rarely smiled and it rarely displayed emotion. To cap
off the expression, Sam was exceedingly sparing of his words. Bill
ground his cigarette on the floor and spoke shortly, but to the point.

“So Sam’s the monnicker, huh?”

“Yeah.”

“Huh. Don’t open yore mouth too wide, Sam, or you’ll show a tooth.
Shucks, they named you wrong. It ought to be ‘Paralyzed.’”

“Yeah?”

“Yeah,” affirmed Bill.

He stepped back a trifle, teetered on his heels and swung his arms
idly, the slate-gray eyes boring into the big fellow. Sam remained
unconcerned; his face was perfectly impassive. It irked Bill. He
snorted once, twice, and moved out of the door humming a tune to show
his perfect indifference.

“Oh!” exclaimed the girl. “Did you ever see such an overbearing man?”
She looked at her escort a little curiously. “What did you think?”

Sam seemed to ponder. “Didn’t want to hit him,” said he lazily; “might
hurt him.”

“Yes,” responded the girl. Budd, keeping his own counsel as to that
eventuality, thought he heard a minor chord of doubt in the girl’s
voice. “Well,” said she, “I think we’d better run along and let Mr.
Budd alone. It’s getting dark. Supper’s ready.”

Budd watched them go across the clearing, the girl waving her hand here
and there to friends, the man bending a little under his height and
moving as if he had all the time in creation. Finally they parted and
disappeared in the shadows. The storekeeper set his shelves in order
and cruised to the kitchen to make supper. It was not a complex
operation, consisting of slicing a few potatoes into a pan and dropping
several strips of bacon alongside to lard the frying. For the main
part, Budd’s mind ran along its habitual channels, prying a little here
and pondering a little there.

What kind of a man was this wooden-faced Sam, anyway? No, not
wooden-faced, corrected Budd--poker-faced was the better term. It was
not the ordinary thing for a man to value his emotions and expressions
so highly that he turned himself into a sphinx. You never could tell
about those fellows--whether they wanted to give you a present or sink
a slug of lead into you. Budd stirred his coffee and chuckled. Now,
Bill was a fellow that wasn’t made to conceal much of anything. He had
a fighting face and, to judge from his last speech with Sam, he had a
fighting heart. Certainly, he was badly taken with the girl, and she
hadn’t found him so distasteful until the last day or two, at which
period Sam had ridden into the scene. No, Bill had seemed to be the
favored one until a quarrel blew up. What it was Budd didn’t know--or
care. He had seen many such spring up--and die away.

He ate his meal, washed down a good many cups of coffee, and treated
himself to a cigar from the shelves. In striking the match his hands
came upon the metal of the deputy’s badge and he snorted in plain
disgust.

“Shucks! Goin’ to be a gol-darned snooper. Dave Budd, I’m plumb ashamed
of yore unhan’some behavior. Paradin’ around like a monkey on a stick.”

It was in his mind to pin the thing inside his vest, but, having once
taken the obligation, he found himself unable to hedge. He stepped down
the porch and sauntered forward.

The fires veered and danced in the late twilight; a fog sank over the
treetops, bringing with it a clammy touch. For the most part the people
had finished with their supper and were now lying around, spinning
yarns and weaving dreams. It was a time for babies to be cooing in the
wagons, half asleep; for the younger boys and girls to be out among the
shadows playing hide and seek. One darted up to Budd and used the
storekeeper’s vast bulk for a momentary refuge. A guitar strummed and a
couple intoned a song about “Sweet Genevieve.” It struck directly to
the hearts of all the middle-aged in that particular circle and voices
died away. Budd moved on with a feeling of compassion. These were his
people, his kind of men and women. Then he saw Bill squatting, Indian
fashion, before a solitary little blaze.

“No comp’ny?” said Budd.

Bill nodded his head to the group ten yards beyond. “Sam’s there
tellin’ the gol-darndest stories. I don’t need no comp’ny when I can
listen in on them yarns.”

Sam was, indeed, relaxing from his taciturnity. He sat with his feet
crossed and illustrated his yarn with a jerky motion of his fingers and
arms, greatly resembling Indian sign language. The girl sat across from
him, her chin cupped in a palm, sometimes looking to him and sometimes
away. Budd wondered if she had deliberately put her back to Bill.
“’Spect so,” he thought, chuckling, and went on.

His last glimpse was of her staring somberly into the fire. He paid his
compliments here and there, answered a question or two and returned to
the house. It was pretty late and he had worked rather hard. In ten
minutes he had found his bed and was fast asleep.

Budd’s manner of slumber was an inheritance from early range days. No
matter how exhausted, he had trained himself to wake at the least
untoward sound. So it was that an unusual commotion out among the
wagons around midnight brought him up instantly. A moment later he was
diving into his clothes upon hearing the repeated bark of a revolver. A
man’s voice lashed out in the night, calling down all the wrath of
heaven. A dog began to howl dismally and a woman screamed. Budd,
forging to the porch, saw the glimmer of a newly lighted lantern and
heard the mumble of a gathering crowd. He walked over to the scene
where a dozen sleepy men had gathered. The lantern, held high, revealed
an irate and whiskered citizen waving a gun and shouting:

“I’ll get the ornery sneak! Come right into my wagon, by gollus! Snuck
the wallet from under my coat.” He saw Budd and reiterated his charge.
“You got to do somethin’ about this, Mr. Budd! Took four hundred an’
ten dollars right from anunder my nose, by gollus! Jest stuck his hand
through the canvas and helped himself.”

A murmur ran through the group. Four hundred dollars was a large sum of
money, and the manner of taking had been audacious. The thief had
obviously threaded his way around sleeping bodies until he found the
wagon. Equally obvious was it that he must have spent some few days in
observing the robbed man’s habits.

“That’s a purty tidy sum of money,” ventured one. Budd’s vast presence
seemed to absorb responsibility like a blotter. To a man they turned
their attention his way. He walked to the wagon. “Stuck his arm through
here?” he asked. On affirmation he plunged his own burly hand through
the slit. “Put yore coat right where it was when the money was took.”

The man climbed inside and did as requested. Budd pawed around the
wagon bed. “You shore that’s where you had it?”

“By gollus, don’t I know? Sure.”

Budd shoved the weight of his body against the canvas and by dint of an
extra lunge his fingers touched the coat. He said to himself, “That
feller’s arm was right long to do things so quick and quiet.” He
turned. “What kind o’ wallet? How’d you have the money?”

“One o’ these twice-fold-over dinguses. It was black leather. My wife
give it to me as a present nine years ago. Nine, wasn’t it, Carrie?
Yep, shore. Four hundred an’ ten dollars in greenbacks. Sixteen
twenties and the rest tens.” He sat down weakly and ran a hand over his
head. “By gollus, I--I don’t know what to do about it! Powerful lot o’
money to lose.”

The crowd moved again. Sam’s tall, impassive presence stood forth.
“This ain’t the first time,” he added significantly. “Stealin’ been
goin’ on for three days. Jest little things.”

Other lanterns arrived and the circle became fairly well illuminated.
Budd swept the faces, and for the first time made out Bill and his
flaming red thatch standing silent and speculative with his slate-gray
eyes fixed on Sam.

“Got to stop,” continued Sam. “What I say is: Search every man here an’
search his duffle.”

There was a dubious approval. Men bent their mind to the feasibility of
it. A voice murmured, “Sounds kinda severe, but I’d be willin’.”

“Only way,” asserted Sam. “Got to stop it now. Any man to object sh’d
be considered guilty.”

A dry answer met this. Bill rubbed his red crest and stuck out his
chin. “Go lay down, Paralyzed. Yore voice makes me tired. Moreover,
yore idea is plumb foolish. Search the whole camp? Shucks, the man that
got this money ain’t an entire fool. He’s cached it away by now.”

“Mean to say,” countered Sam in the same, unexpressive drawl, “you’re
unwillin’?”

“Yore brain does you credit. I said that an’ I mean that. Don’t care
about a lot o’ loose fingers pokin’ through my war bag.” The chin
seemed to advance a little farther. Those slate-gray eyes fired a plain
challenge at the big man. But Bill had reckoned without the sudden,
unanimous spirit that sometimes takes hold of a crowd. A pair of arms
pinioned him around the waist and the circle closed in like a rubber
band. “See about that, young fella!” cried one.

The few women withdrew quickly. Budd, still a spectator, saw the girl’s
troubled face by the lantern’s gleam. Then she was gone. Somebody took
upon himself the task of inspecting Bill’s clothes and for his pains
found nothing. Sam’s curiously disinterested voice pointed the search
in another direction. “His war bag, boys. Better look there.”

Two or three left the circle with a lantern. Budd, waiting, found time
to study Sam’s face again and was compelled to mutter admiringly,
“Ain’t that a poker expression, though?” Bill was plainly outraged and
bucked in his captor’s arm. “Boys, you better hold tight. Dad gum my
soul, somebody’s goin’ to dance fer this!”

“Hi! Boys, here’s the wallet all right! Take a look, fella. That it?”
The crowd moved over, the robbed one identified his wallet with a
brightening eye and the crowd turned upon Bill with a satisfied sigh.

“Now, ‘Red,’ you’re in poor comp’ny. Better cough up the money or we’ll
get plumb mad.”

Bill stared around him in plain disgust. His gaze fell upon the cool
and aloof Sam. “Paralyzed, I shore give you credit for bein’ the little
deteckatiff.” Then he grew sober. “Oh, go home, you galoots, and get a
night’s sleep. I got nobody’s money. Can’t you see it was planted?
That’s terrible old stuff. Gamblers used to pull that in Montana when I
was a little boy.”

They were all silent and ominous. Some one spoke the popular opinion.
“Talkin’ ain’t helpin’ yore case at all, Red. Figger you’d like to
dance a jig in the cold night air? Don’t be foolish. Where’s the man’s
money?”

Bill snorted in anger. “Money? I tell you I ain’t got the money! Was
sleepin’ peacefullike when some ornery maverick stepped in my face and
hollered there was a wallet missin’.”

Once again silence and finally a slow, hesitant suggestion. “Mebbe a
rope’d help things out consid’ble, boys.”

Budd elected to become active. He put out his two arms and moved a half
dozen men out of his path in the manner of one shoving aside the
branches of a tree. “Reckon the talk is gettin’ a leetle wild, friends.
When a gent says ‘rope,’ the time’s come for a mite o’ mature
reflection. Speakin’ as deppity sher’ff, I guess I’ll jest take the boy
in hand. Mebbe a few hours’ thought’ll change his mind.”

“Don’t need no reflection,” muttered somebody. “Need rope. Ain’t goin’
to be sidetracked this-a-way. The measly cuss stole a man’s hard-earned
money, and it ain’t to be tolerated in these parts. I’m fer summary
justice.”

“Ain’t carin’ what you’re for,” stated Budd in flat finality. “Anybody
wishin’ to doubt my authority?”

Somehow in the lantern light the man had become as a mountain of
purpose; his face, which in daylight looked bland and cherubic, was
rock hard. He spoke easily and his movements were deliberate, but there
was no single man to raise a voice in further protest.

“Bill, you just march in front of me to the store. Rest o’ you night
birds walk around a while and cool off. Don’t get no queer ideas about
rope and tree limbs; I don’t aim to tolerate foolishness. We’ll stick
to plain law.”

He marched Bill into the storeroom, shut the door, and put his lantern
on the counter. “Regardless of circumstances and greenback bills,” said
he, “I reckon I’ll have to tie you up for the night. Don’t aim to make
it any harder on you than I have to. There’s blankets on the floor. Git
down on ’em, young feller. I’ll bundle you up so’s it won’t bind you.”

“This,” said Bill in a kind of restrained fury, “is plumb unreasonable
and aggravatin’. First I get my face stepped on, and next they want to
lynch me. Now I got to be wound up like a roll of fence wire.”

Budd clucked his tongue. “Shore is enough to make a man swear. Git
down, Bill. Now take it easy. But sometimes certain moves lead to
certain other moves.”

Bill submitted to the operation. “Yeah, ain’t that as clear as mud?
First you put out yore right foot and then yore left. But if I never do
anything else in my life I’m shore goin’ to change that waddy Sam’s
complexion. I shore am.” He rested, finally, with his arms and legs
more or less tightly bound, and yet Budd had done the trussing cleverly
enough to allow the prisoner a certain comfort on his hard bed. Then he
strung the free end of the rope through the kitchen door and tied it to
a leg of the range. “Reckon if you go to threshing around too much,” he
observed, “I’ll hear the stove creakin’. Now I aim to finish off a
little business of six hours sleep.”

Bill surveyed his bonds and cast a candid eye upon his captor. “Now
listen, hombre, if a man wanted to wiggle out o’ this----”

Budd looked him in the eye. “You dang fool,” he muttered; “you dang
fool.”

The captive closed his mouth and opened his eyes a little wider. After
a few moments silence he muttered, “Oh.”

Then he turned his back to the big storekeeper and fell silent. Budd
was as inscrutable as a Chinese idol. He picked up the lantern, went
back to his bedroom and blew out the light. “Feel a lot easier in the
conscience,” he muttered, “if I didn’t have this cussed piece o’ tin.”

He stared at the ceiling and presently was asleep. No more strange
sounds from the wagons awoke him that night, and if the kitchen range
creaked, he gave no notice that he was aware of it. Yet he seemed fated
to be wakened by another noisy event. When gray dawn seeped into the
clearing a file of excited men trooped through the house, banged at his
door, and brought him up from the pillow with one trenchant question.

“Whar’s yore prisoner?”

Budd yawned and reached for his pipe. “Guess you’ll find him sleepin’
behind the counter where I tied him.”

A sarcastic rumble greeted this. “Yes we will! Of all the fool ideas!
He shucked himself out o’ that rope and vamosed.”

The storekeeper’s heavy lids drooped; he fumbled with his tobacco pouch
and muttered, “Y’ don’t say!”

Then he slid into his clothes and led the impromptu committee back to
the storeroom. True enough, his bird had fled. The free end of the rope
still was tied around a stove log, but the rest of it was slit in a
dozen places. The cheese knife, which ordinarily rested on the counter,
was stuck in the floor boards, mute witness of Bill’s manner of
passage. Budd ruefully clucked his tongue. “Slick an’ clean. There’s a
dum good six-dollar piece o’ rope made wuthless.”

“Huh--you’re a sweet deppity! Should’ve let well enough alone last
night! Now what’re you goin’ to do?”

Budd picked up the knife and sliced himself a piece of the cheese.
“Well, now, first I aim to eat. Then I aim to take care o’ the store.
Then mebbe I’ll do a little figgerin’. Might even send word to Sher’ff
McKenzie to keep a lookout at his end o’ the county. Come back later
an’ I’ll tell you the rest.”

“Meanwhile,” stated one of the committee, “he’s scootin’ with four
hundred dollars of this man’s hard-earned money. Turrible!”

They conferred among themselves, found Budd strangely imperturbable and
went out, unsatisfied. The storekeeper cruised back and got his morning
meal.

As the day wore on he found part of his duty performed for him. The
more determined of the landseekers organized a posse and galloped up
the road toward Bend. Around noon they came back with nothing for their
efforts. A few beat into the jack pines a half mile or so and returned
empty-handed. Budd, standing on his porch, gave them a few choice words
of advice. “Takes an experienced hand to find anything in the brush.
Not much good in yore tactics.” They chose not to give up the pursuit
and after dinner again scoured the road, this time to the south. Budd
was not much interested in these movements. Such time as he spent on
the porch was used to keep a shrewd watch over the girl and Sam. The
latter had not elected to go with the posse, but at one point in the
afternoon he picked up his gun and, seeming to have a plan of his own,
marched directly into the pines and was lost for the best part of an
hour. The girl, who had been idling around her wagon, watched him go
and after a short interval vanished up the road. She was back in a
little while, coming directly to the store.

“Mr. Budd, this is dreadful! Do you suppose any one will find him? If
they do, they’ll be sure to shoot.”

“That’s the portion of thieves, ain’t it?”

“But he’s not a thief!” Then she seemed to collect herself, and a color
rose in her cheeks. “No, I don’t believe he did it. I don’t believe it.”

“Thought you didn’t think so much of him?”

“Oh, that! We may have been quarreling, but--but I know him to be an
honest man.”

“How long’ve you known him?”

“Why, we met on the road about a week ago.” She saw a question in the
storekeeper’s face and flushed again. “It doesn’t take a woman forever
to judge, you know. If Bill chooses to run off, I’m sure I have no
reason to worry about his affairs.” She spoke it primly, unaware that
her eyes told another story. “But I’m quite sure he’d not be a sneak
thief.”

The girl changed the subject abruptly and asked a question about
homesteading. Budd turned to one of his never-failing stories and kept
drawling away until he saw Sam duck into the clearing and make for the
store. He sighed, fingered the deputy’s star on his vest and turned
toward the cigar box which served as his cash till. “Storekeepin’ used
to be a nice quiet trade until this boom hit me. Now I got to be a
regular bookkeeper.” He was shuffling a pile of paper bills on the
counter when Sam came in.

“Yore prisoner,” said he in the same lazy voice, “is a slick one. Got
plumb clean.”

“Twen’y-five, thirty, forty-five,” counted Budd, thumbing the bills.
“You been chasing him, too?”

“Thought I had a scent, but it petered out.” Sam’s eyes followed Budd’s
pile of money. “He’s ducked. What I can’t see is why he didn’t make a
stab to get his duffle and horse.”

“Eighty-nine dollars and fifty-three cents,” tabulated Budd, rumbling
to himself. He made a few weird scratches with a stub pencil and thrust
the money carelessly back in the cigar box. Sam watched the operation
with his poker face, blandly uninterested. “Well,” continued Budd,
“he’ll be caught sooner or later. They always do. Never saw a crook git
far yet.”

“That’s right,” assented Sam. He turned to the girl. “Care to amble
around and scare up an appetite?”

“Yes,” said she.

Her eyes were likewise fixed on the cigar box. A swift look went to
Budd. He was slivering off another piece of cheese, intent on the
process. So the two walked out and circled around the wagons.

The storekeeper put the cigar box on the counter, ransacked the shelves
for writing paper and sat down to compose a rather long letter. He was
not a rapid penman, and before he had finished night once more was upon
the clearing with the fires sending their veering tongues of flame to
the black sky. He went back to the kitchen, got something to eat, and
sat down for a long, dark study over the tip of his cigar. Alternately
he chuckled and frowned.

“That girl,” said he, “is shore a case. Been playin’ Sam agin’ Bill to
even up a quarrel, and now she’s turrible sorry. Jest like what a
woman’d do.” He looked down at the star and was acutely displeased.
“This thing shore sets on my mind. Ef I was jest an ordinary citizen it
wouldn’t be sech a risky experiment; bein’ an officer makes my
conscience troubled, and that’s a fact.”

He went to the front door and swung his lantern idly to and fro,
passing a glance at the wagons in which most of the landseekers were
now asleep. Then he turned back, still swinging the light so that any
one looking through the open portal might see him, and passed to the
kitchen. There he blew out the lantern, turned about, and tiptoed to
the front room. He took up the blanket, wrapped it around him and sat
down behind the counter with his back to the shelves and his revolver
in his hand. Presently he dozed off and dreamed of his boyhood in
Pennsylvania.

He seemed, after a time, to have trouble with his dream. It was winter
and he was skating with his young companions on the ice. There was a
crack in the middle of the pond and a danger sign pointing from it. But
he felt as if he could safely dare that sign, so he skated to the very
edge and turned away. He had been too bold. There was a sharp cracking
of the ice and--he woke with both eyes fixed upward. The illusion of
cracking ice had been made by a loose board creaking under a weight.
Budd took a firmer grip on his gun and breathed softly. Again the board
registered protest; not a loud sound, but enough to tell the
storekeeper that the bait in his trap found a willing stalker.
Something very slight swept over the counter surface and struck the
cigar box with an audible tick. Budd made out a dark, moving shadow in
the gloom. He hoisted his body with surprising celerity and quickly
snapped the revolver forward.

“Freeze right in yore tracks,” he commanded. “Hands above yore haid.
Hurry now!”

The command was not obeyed. Budd, peering closely, saw the intruder’s
weapon arm streak downward. He moved aside and shook his head under the
stunning crash of gun fire. A little finger of orange-blue momentarily
flashed in his face. He jumped, and again the room shook under heavy
echoes. The intruder let out a great breath of air as if he had been
punched in the stomach, pawed at the counter and seemed to dissolve;
first the gun struck the floor; then the body collapsed, muttering,
“Got me, you sly ol’ fox.”

All was still. Then the wagons came to life and a few landseekers ran
up to the store; a lantern swung and winked.

Budd lighted his own lantern and bent over the intruder. It was the man
he had supposed--Sam, his long body sprawled awkwardly on the boards,
his face white and wholly without expression, staring toward the
storekeeper. He was dead. In falling he had pulled the cigar box with
him, whose contents of greenbacks now scattered over the floor.

The landseekers crowded into the room, and the assembled lanterns made
a great light. It was a story too plain to need explanation, and in the
silence Budd ventured his mild explanation.

“I knew it was this feller all the time, and not Bill,” said he. “But I
wasn’t plumb shore. So I arranged to let Bill escape and baited my trap
with the money in the cigar box. Sam saw it and sprung the trap, shore
enough.”

“Why’d you let the other fella go?” inquired one.

Budd smiled and pushed through to the porch. He expanded his lungs and
bellowed at the pine trees. “Oh, Bill! She’s all settled!” Then he made
further explanations. “I don’t _know_ that he’s hereabouts, but I’m
figgerin’ so. He ain’t the kind to run off ’thout tryin’ to clear his
name, and I guessed he’d try to catch Sam in the act o’ cachin’ the
money somewheres in the woods, or else raisin’ the cache.”

Footsteps thumped on the porch, and Bill, drenched with the night dew
and tousle-haired, came up. “You old son of a gun,” said he. “You’re
purty shrewd. I figgered you’d make a play like that. Saw it in yore
face last night.” He held out his hand for a cigarette. “When mornin’
comes I’ll show you where Sam hid the four hundred dollars. I was in
the brush an’ saw him go to the place this afternoon. That’s when all
the boys were threshin’ the thicket for me. Shucks, don’t you know it’s
a hard job to ketch an old hand in the brush?”

There was a call from the porch; a woman’s urgent command. “Bill!”

Bill grinned. “Reckon she’s been tryin’ to clear me, too. Tried to
foller Sam this afternoon, but got lost and ran plump into me.”

“Still mad, is she?” asked Budd.

Bill passed him a wink and elbowed his way out of the room.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the February 13, 1926
issue of _Western Story Magazine_.]





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FALSE FACE ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


